Title: AGA Clinical Practice Update on Nonampullary Duodenal Lesions: Expert Review.
PMID: 39545885
Journal: Gastroenterology
Published: 2025-Jan
URL: https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/39545885/
Authors: Bourke MJ, Lo SK, Buerlein RCD, Das KK

Abstract:
[DESCRIPTION] Nonampullary duodenal polyps are found in up to 5% of all upper endoscopies; the vast majority are identified incidentally in asymptomatic patients. Although most are benign, adenomas are estimated to account for 10%-20% of these lesions. Most international guidelines recommend that all duodenal adenomas should be considered for endoscopic resection; this may be associated with a near 15% adverse event rate (predominantly bleeding and perforation) in prospective studies, with substantial local recurrence on surveillance. The aim of this American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) Clinical Practice Update Expert Review was to describe how individuals should be evaluated and risk-stratified for duodenal polyps, the best approaches to endoscopic resection and surveillance, and management of complications, highlighting opportunities for future research to fill gaps in the existing literature.
[METHODS] This expert review was commissioned and approved by the AGA Institute Clinical Practice Updates Committee and the AGA Governing Board to provide timely guidance on a topic of high clinical importance to the AGA membership, and underwent internal peer review by the Clinical Practice Updates Committee and external peer review through standard procedures of Gastroenterology. These Best Practice Advice statements were drawn from a review of the published literature and from expert opinion. Because systematic reviews were not performed, these Best Practice Advice statements do not carry formal ratings regarding the quality of evidence or strength of the presented considerations. Best Practice Advice Statements BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 1: Non-neoplastic duodenal lesions (eg, metaplastic foveolar epithelium and gastric heterotopia) may mimic neoplastic adenomatous pathology. Careful optical evaluation and pathologic correlation may be necessary to exclude dysplasia. Nondysplastic lesions do not require endoscopic resection unless they are symptomatic or bleeding. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 2: Ideal duodenal endoscopic inspection includes identification of the major and minor papilla with photodocumentation to ensure no involvement by the lesion. Adding a clear distal attachment device to a forward-viewing gastroscope improves visualization of the papilla and the medial wall. A side-viewing duodenoscope should be used when the major and minor papilla are not visible with the gastroscope and for most lesions on the medial wall of the duodenum within 5 cm of the ampulla. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 3: All duodenal polyps should be described according to their size, Paris morphology, suspected histologic layer of origin (mucosal lesion or subepithelial lesion), duodenal location (D1-4) and orientation (anterior, posterior, medial, or lateral wall), and proximity/relationship to the major papilla to facilitate therapeutic planning and subsequent surveillance. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 4: Given the high frequency of concomitant colonic adenomas in patients with duodenal adenomas, on identification of a duodenal adenoma, a colonoscopy should be performed if a high-quality examination has not been performed in the last 3 years. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 5: Routine small bowel investigation (ie, capsule endoscopy) is not advised in patients with sporadic and nonsporadic duodenal adenomas. Periodic small bowel inspection with capsule endoscopy may be of benefit in patients with Peutz-Jeghers syndrome. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 6: Definitive treatment of duodenal adenomas by endoscopic resection is less morbid, resource-intensive, and expensive than surgery and is therefore the preferred treatment option. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 7: Due to the risk of malignant transformation, all sporadic duodenal adenomas should be considered for endoscopic resection. However, in comparison with colonic adenomas, the time course to malignant transformation may be more prolonged, and the risk of resection-related morbidity much greater. Therefore, the comorbidities and anticipated longevity of the patient must be carefully factored into the decision-making process. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 8: The approach to endoscopic duodenal resection (ie, hot vs cold and conventional vs underwater endoscopic mucosal resection) should be individualized to reduce bleeding risk, based on lesion size, morphology, patient comorbidities, and endoscopist comfort level with specific techniques. Piecemeal cold snare resection for flat duodenal adenomas mitigates postprocedural bleeding risk and, for lesions <20 mm, is effective and carries a minimal risk of recurrence. In patients with comorbidities with flat nonbulky lesions measuring < 20 mm, cold snare resection can be considered. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 9: Currently, duodenal adenomas >20 mm or with large Paris subtype Is components should be removed by conventional hot snare endoscopic mucosal resection. Thermal ablation of the post-endoscopic mucosal resection margin to mitigate the risk of recurrence to <2%-5% is safe and effective and should be considered. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 10: Endoscopists performing duodenal polyp resection should be aware of the increased risk of postprocedural bleeding (compared with elsewhere in the gastrointestinal tract), which usually occurs in the first 48 hours after the procedure, with the risk proportional to the lesion size. For lesions >3 cm, bleeding risk is >25% and may be life-threatening and associated with hemodynamic compromise; however, after resuscitation, endoscopic hemostasis is generally effective. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 11: Evaluation of the postpolypectomy/endoscopic mucosal resection defect is critical to identify concerns for postprocedural duodenal perforation, which, if unrecognized and left untreated, may be life-threatening and often mandates surgery. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 12: Initial endoscopic surveillance for a completely resected duodenal adenoma should be undertaken at an interval of 6 months. Although usually diminutive, recurrence is often scarred and not amenable to conventional snare resection and may require avulsion techniques to achieve cure. BEST PRACTICE ADVICE 13: Nonampullary duodenal adenomas associated with familial adenomatous polyposis should be considered for endoscopic resection based on size (≥1 cm), morphologic characteristics, advanced histology (ie, high-grade dysplasia), and/or based on Spiegelman criteria.